#10539 compat.rst (#10605)
bokeh/bokeh: sphinx/source/docs/user_guide/compat.rst

BokehJS
-------

Bokeh generates JavaScript. This makes its output fully compatible with
a wide variety of JavaScript libraries, such as `React`_. Listing all

> such libraries is beyond the scope of this document; it's best to just

Reviewer: I very much agree with @Konntroll's comment on this paragraph ("Perhaps it's better to offer a list of libraries that are commonly used and let the user know that there's more synergy beyond the list. As things are, this has a rather uninformative feel to it."). @bryevdv, do you have an idea on how to be more concrete here?

Reviewer 2: Well, "Bokeh generates JavaScript" is slightly misleading. Bokeh generates JSON that is consumed by an existing (not generated) JS library, BokehJS. Maybe something like:

> All of the actual work to display Bokeh content in a browser is done by a companion JavaScript library, BokehJS. Normally, BokehJS operates by rendering JSON data that is generated by the Python Bokeh library. However,  BokehJS can also be used directly as JavasScript library on its own, or together with common JavaScript frameworks such as `React`_, `Vue`_, `Angular`_, and others.

Reviewer: The user guide has a whole chapter on BokehJS (https://docs.bokeh.org/en/dev/docs/user_guide/bokehjs.html) and I suggest linking to that section instead of providing too many details here. How about:

> To display visualizations in a browser, Bokeh uses its companion JavaScript library, [BokehJS](https://docs.bokeh.org/en/dev/docs/user_guide/bokehjs.html). You can also use BokehJS as a standalone JavasScript library or in combination with JavaScript frameworks such as React_, Vue_, Angular_, and others. 
See [Developing with JavaScript](https://docs.bokeh.org/en/dev/docs/user_guide/bokehjs.html) for more information about BokehJS.

Reviewer 3: Sounds good to me, but maybe mention JSON ("Bokeh uses its companion JavaScript  library, BokehJS, communicating data and events from Python using JSON")?

try and see!

Datashader
----------

Bokeh lets you pass data from Python directly into a browser so you

> can interact with it quickly and responsively, even without a live

Reviewer: I personally like to avoid metaphors of live and death for software related things, where possible. How about:

> even without Python actively running in the background.

Reviewer 2: Maybe 

> without needing any connection to a running Python process. 

There might be any number of background Python processes running that have nothing to do with Bokeh so "without Python actively running in the background" is a little too general for me

Reviewer 2: Though you *can* have a running bokeh server. Maybe just 

> Bokeh lets you pass data from Python directly into a browser so you
 can interact with it quickly and responsively.

and leave it at that?

Reviewer 3: Hmm. I think my original reason for that statement was to indicate that if you use Bokeh, you can do a lot that is handled entirely by the browser (via JS), without needing to round trip to Python.  The latest version doesn't convey that there doesn't need to be such round tripping, which is important when contrasting with Datashader, where the round tripping is crucial.

Reviewer 3: I'll resolve these notes and reword as a suggestion patch.

> Python process. However, browser data processing limitations may

Reviewer: "browser data processing limitations" is a very long and complex word. How about:

> However, data processing in the browser has limits which might become a problem when...

Reviewer 3: I'll reword.

become a problem when plotting millions or billions of points.

> Moreover, visual representation of such large datasets often gets

Reviewer: Should probably an article like "a visual representation". Or, maybe a little bit easier to read:

> Moreover, creating a visual representation of very large datasets can be misleading because of issues such as overplotting.

Reviewer 3: Ok, I'll re-word.

> Bokeh lets you pass data from Python directly into a browser so you
> can interact with it quickly and responsively, even without a live
> Python process. However, browser data processing limitations may
> become a problem when plotting millions or billions of points.
> Moreover, visual representation of such large datasets often gets
> misleading because of `overplotting`_ and related issues.
> 
> `Datashader`_ is a separate Python library that renders even the
> largest datasets as fixed-size raster images that faithfully
> represent data. Datashader gives you the tools to build interactive
> Bokeh plot images that dynamically re-render when you zoom and pan.
> This lets you output visualizations of arbitrarily large datasets in
> browsers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, Bokeh copies datapoints from Python into a JavaScript
process running in your browser to provide responsive, locally
interactive plots. However, browsers can only handle limited
amounts of data, making it infeasible to plot millions or billions
of points directly in JavaScript. Moreover, typical plot-rendering
techniques end up with misleading plots for such large datasets,
because of `overplotting`_ and related issues.

`Datashader`_ is a separate Python library that renders even the
largest datasets as fixed-size raster images that faithfully
represent the underlying data. Datashader gives you the tools to
build interactive Bokeh plot images that dynamically re-render in
Python when you zoom and pan. This approach lets you display
interactive visualizations of arbitrarily large datasets in standard
web browsers.
```

    :alt: Datashader Bokeh example
    :align: center

HoloViews
---------

> Bokeh offers you a lot of versatility when it comes to development

Reviewer: Should'nt this be either "when it comes to the development of complex" or "when it comes to developing complex"?

Reviewer 3: Seems ok to me already, but I probably wrote it, so it would! :-) Either revision sounds fine.

Reviewer: I'd prefer "when it comes to developing complex" - but up to @Konntroll, I'd say 😀

of complex data visualizations for the web. Even so, a higher-level
API can make day-to-day visualization tasks easier and less verbose.

> `HoloViews`_ is a concise declarative interface that helps you build

Reviewer: I think that it is important to know that HoloView is a seperately maintained package (and needs to be installed separately). So, how about:

> HoloViews is a concise declarative interface that helps you build Bokeh plots. It is maintained seperately from Bokeh and focuses on interaction with Jupyter...

Reviewer 3: "Separately", but otherwise. sure.

 :align: center

Adding overlaid plots, slider widgets, selector widgets, selection
tools, and tabs is similarly straightforward.

Further synergy
---------------

You can render HoloViews objects with the `Matplotlib`_ library. This

> enables SVG and PDF output not currently available for native Bokeh

Reviewer: @bryevdv Is this still correct, given the improved SVG export in Bokeh itself?

Reviewer: Also, in case this sentence remains in here: The Google style guide recommends avoiding potentially socially-charged terms for technical concepts where possible (https://developers.google.com/style/inclusive-documentation#features-and-users). So, instead of "native", I'd recommend saying something like "not available in Bokeh itself."

Reviewer 2: I think this comment is just out of date and can be removed

> plots. See the HoloViews `tutorial`_ on Bokeh backend for more

Reviewer: It seems like there is an article missing in this sentence ("on the Bokeh"). How about:

> For more details, see the `tutorial`_ on the Bokeh backend in the Holoviews documentation.

 :align: center

Adding overlaid plots, slider widgets, selector widgets, selection
tools, and tabs is similarly straightforward.

Further synergy

> ---------------

Reviewer 2: I'd like propose an organization change here. By itself, Datashader and Bokeh do not have much of an integration story. Datashader just generates images and has no direct Bokeh integation, and Bokeh does not know about Datashader at all. The story is Holoviews +Datashader. 

So I would propose: Rename "Further synergy" to "Datashader" and move all the datashader paragraphs above here (above the content below)

thoughs @jbednar ?

Reviewer 3: When this was written, I think Datashader still had direct Bokeh integration, but that was not very useful, and nowadays I don't know of anyone using Datashader directly with Bokeh. So, sure!
